Add The Sound Design of osu!(lazer) newspost (#7678)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2022-07-31-the-sound-design-of-lazer.md

Jamie "nekodex" Taylor is a full-stack engineer born in Australia who joined the osu! team as a web developer in 2015 after peppy asked if he was interested in helping rebuild the osu! website. Jamie has been with the team ever since, working on various osu!-related things, such as the review system for beatmap modding, the chat system etc., but today he describes himself as a hybrid audio designer/developer and isn't too involved in the web side of things anymore. Today we'll take a look at the origins of nekodex, how he developed as an artist and the work he's done for the audio side of osu!.

nekodex as an alias came to be in 2012, as Jamie had a musical background while growing up, played with early music software, learned from YouTube tutorials and eventually started messing around in DAWs (digital audio workstations) until music came out. As Jamie was getting serious with music production, peppy was preparing osu!stream (an iOS spinoff of osu! that was created in 2010) for the public view, which required original music for the game.

> Since peppy and Jamie are real life friends and peppy knew about his music, he got the chance to create some themes and tracks for osu!stream, and later on got some of his own songs mapped for it as well. He then later went on to create several official songs throughout the years that we all know and love, such as [welcome to osu!](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/welcome-to-osu), [circles!](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/circles) and [aureole](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/aureole).

Author: I've rewritten this part to match the details provided by yourself

> When peppy decided to start working on a new client from the ground up in 2016 (after trying to make lazer within the stable client and figuring out such a thing would not be feasible), he wanted to not only make the game look good, but also *feel* good. That task required an audio designer, and with nekodex already having done several amazing works for osu!, peppy approached him.

Reviewer: Yep, as mentioned. I approached nekodex in 2021 because the sound design wasn't up-to-bar with the visual experience, and wanted someone to take this on full time until there was parity there.

> When peppy decided to start working on a new client from the ground up in 2016 (after trying to make lazer within the stable client and figuring out such a thing would not be feasible), he wanted to not only make the game look good, but also *feel* good. That task required an audio designer, and with nekodex already having done several amazing works for osu!, peppy approached him.

Author: Thanks both, I have reworded the article to convey this detail properly

His first involvement with osu! as a music producer would come in 2011 as peppy was preparing osu!stream (a spinoff of osu! for iOS) and needed original music for the game. Since peppy and nekodex are real life friends and peppy knew about his music, he got the chance to create the [main menu theme](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/osu-stream-theme) and a track ([Liquid Future](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/liquid-future)) for the release of osu!stream, and later on went on to create several official songs for osu!(stable) throughout the years that we all know and love, such as [welcome to osu!](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/welcome-to-osu), [circles!](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/circles) and [aureole](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/aureole).

> In 2021 during development of osu!(lazer) and peppy saw that the sound design was lacking compared to all of the new visuals and asked nekodex if he was willing to try and give it a facelift, at that point his primary work such as the osu! website and lazer were in a good enough spot so he decided to accept the task and committed to it fully. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In 2021 during development of osu!(lazer), peppy saw that the sound design was lacking compared to all of the new visuals and asked nekodex if he was willing to try and give it a facelift. At that point nekodex's primary work such as the osu! website and lazer were in a good enough spot so he decided to accept the task and committed to it fully. 
```

Once all the changes are made, they are then coded up in lazer and tested, as a sort of pre-production step in order to see how the interaction feels and whether the pitch shifting effect works properly. A few back-and-forths and voila, we've got the sound that's in lazer right now!

Another sound that may be particularly satisfying is the difficulty selection sound in song select. Have a listen again:

<div align="center">
    <video width="100%" controls>
        <source src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sSFtWgHRZpo" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

This one was pretty simple according to nekodex:

>...it was just a woodblock sample with a bunch of processing to make it sound more (tonally) balanced and snappier. I had tried a bunch of different ideas for difficulty selection, but turns out sometimes simple is best.

> The work nekodex is able to dish out considering the total lack of prior experience is amazing — every single tick, click and hover is extremely satisfying, and it makes just toying around in the various menus of lazer extremely fun as well! Next time you boot lazer up, maybe take a moment to turn the music all the way down and just play with the buttons and hear all of the amazing work nekodex did yourself! The answers had to be cut down a bit, if you are interested in the full details check out his answers from my Q+A:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The work nekodex is able to dish out considering the total lack of prior experience is amazing — every single tick, click and hover is extremely satisfying, and it makes just toying around in the various menus of lazer extremely fun as well! Next time you boot lazer up, maybe take a moment to turn the music all the way down and just play with the buttons and hear all of the amazing work nekodex did yourself!

The answers from the interview had to be cut down a bit for this article, but if you are interested in the full details check it all out here:
```

<audio controls>
  <source src="/wiki/shared/news/2022-07-31-lazer-sound-design/trivia-1.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

<audio controls>
    <source src="/wiki/shared/news/2022-07-31-lazer-sound-design/trivia-2.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

<audio controls>
    <source src="/wiki/shared/news/2022-07-31-lazer-sound-design/trivia-3.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

---

How familiar are you with the sound of lazer? If you haven't tried it yet, go give osu!(lazer) a try and listen to all the different sounds, which you can do by downloading it from [its GitHub releases page](https://github.com/ppy/osu/releases). osu!(lazer) is actively being worked on by peppy and many other individuals who contribute their time and knowledge, so if you have any suggestions or want to help yourself, feel free to browse around on GitHub or take a closer look at development in the [osu!dev Discord server](https://discord.gg/ppy)!

> -0x84f

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
—0x84f
```

nekodex is a full-stack engineer born in Australia who joined the osu! team as a web developer in 2015 after peppy asked if he was interested in helping rebuild the osu! website. nekodex has been with the team ever since, working on various osu!-related things, such as the review system for beatmap modding, the chat system etc., but today he describes himself as a hybrid audio designer/developer and isn't too involved in the web side of things anymore. 

His first involvement with osu! as a music producer would come in 2011 as peppy was preparing osu!stream (a spinoff of osu! for iOS) and needed original music for the game. Since peppy and nekodex are real life friends and peppy knew about his music, he got the chance to create the [main menu theme](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/osu-stream-theme) and [a track](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/liquid-future) for the release of osu!stream, and later on went on to create several official songs for osu!(stable) throughout the years that we all know and love, such as [welcome to osu!](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/welcome-to-osu), [circles!](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/circles) and [aureole](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/aureole).

> In 2021 during development of osu!(lazer) and peppy saw that the sound design was lacking compared to all of the new visuals and asked nekodex if he was willing to try and give it a facelift, at that point his primary work such as the osu! website and lazer were in a good enough spot so he decided to accept the task and committed to it fully. 

Reviewer 4: I guess I was unclear... my primary work was on the osu! website, not lazer.

I was trying to say that peppy and the team had gotten lazer to the point where the architecture had settled enough for me to start working on adding SFX.

Author: I will fix this once I am back home from vacation tomorrow
